Patch release notes for 4.8.1 (#96433)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/48-release-notes.adoc

* `Yes` to enable enforcement for events.
* `No` to disable enforcement for events.

[id="about-this-release-481_{context}"]
== About release 4.8.1

*Release date* 28 July 2025

> This release of {product-title-short} 4.7 provides the following bug fixes:

Reviewer: 4.8

//ROX-30059 - Dmitrii
* Before this update, {product-title-short} Central backup failure occurred due to using `pg_dump` version 13 with the PostgreSQL 15 database. This backup failure resulted in data loss for users on version 4.8 with the PostgreSQL 15 databases. With this release, we updated the `pg_dump` version in Central to resolve the backup failures.

> //ROX-30057 - Luis VM
> * Before this update, long network flow update jobs during the 4.8 upgrade caused a 2-hour migration timeout. As a consequence, users experienced a 2-hour outage during the upgrade. With this release, batch network flow updates have been implemented to reduce migration timeouts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//ROX-30057 - Luis VM
* Before this update, the migration of the network flow table during the 4.8 upgrade would take a lot of time, ultimately failing with timeout after 2 hours. With this release, batch network flow updates have been implemented to reduce the migration time.
```

//ROX-29724 - Jouko
* Before this update, removing a network entity from the network tree did not properly remove its parent node when it had no children or value, leading to a memory leak. As a consequence, users experienced increased memory usage and potential application crashes, particularly noticeable with external IPs enabled. With this release, the memory leak has been fixed by removing parent nodes when nodes are removed from the network tree. As a result, network tree memory usage is optimized, reducing potential crashes and improving system performance, especially with external IPs enabled.
//ROX-29649 - from 4.7.5 notes
* Before this update, you could observe excessive logging of telemetry collection status, resulting in log spam. With this update, the telemetry collection has been configured to not emit repeated logs continuously, which resolves the issue and significantly reduces the log volume.
//ROX-29613 - Olivier

> * Before this update, there was a time window during which external IPs could be stored in the database while the corresponding deployment had been deleted. This resulted in inaccessible and stale data, and a loss of storage and memory, possibly leading to memory exhaustion. With this release, Central no longer stores external IP information about deleted deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, Central sometimes stored external IPs in the database even after users deleted their corresponding deployments. This resulted in inaccessible and stale data, leading to a loss of storage and memory, and potential memory exhaustion. With this release, Central no longer stores external IP information for deleted deployments, resolving these issues.
```
